= Seedable

Data import and export for rails, to assist in seeding development
databases from production.

== What is Seedable?

Seedable is a mixin to select groups of objects, and export them via
serialized JSON, to be reimported later.  The goal, is less to maintain
a consistent database state, but for quick dumping and restoring of data
between environments, to seed your database.

== Usage

Using Seedable is easy!

=== How do I include it?

Add the gem.

    gem 'seedable'

Include the module:

    include Seedable

In the models you want to export together, place the following:

    seedable

=== Exporting records

To export, call:

    json = @garage.to_seedable

By default, seedable will traverse all active\_record associations and
export all of their attributes.  To exclude associations, do the following:

    seedable :include_associations => [:cars, :bikes]

You can also call it after the fact:

    Garage.include_associations([:cars])

To filter attributes:

    seedable :filter_attributes => [:id]

You can also call it after the fact:

    Garage.filter_attributes([:id])

You can also export an array of disperse object types:

    [@garage, @car, @garage2, @bike].to_seedable

=== Importing records

To import:

    Garage.from_seedable(json)

or, if you have JSON from a unknown object type and want it to return
the proper object type:

    Seedable.from_seedable(garage_json) # Returns Garage object.

or, an array of different object types:

    json = [@garage, @car, @garage2, @bike].to_seedable
    Seedable.from_seedable(json) # Returns array of [Garage, Car, Garage, Bike]

== Caveats

This is the first release, and yes, there are a bunch of caveats.

=== Compatibility

1. Compatible and tested under rails 3.1 and rails-master.
2. Compatible and tested under ruby 1.9.2.

=== Exporting with primary keys

1. Importing objects with associated objects by primary key will only
   work on rails master.  This is because the code relies on mass
   assignment changes/abstractions destined for rails-3.2.x.

== License

Seedable is Copyright © 2011 Christopher Meiklejohn.  It is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the LICENSE file.

== About

The seedable gem was written by {Christopher Meiklejohn}[mailto:cmeiklejohn@swipely.com] from {Swipely, Inc.}[http://www.swipely.com].
